---
id: video-backend
title: Installing and running the videoBackend
---

In this page we will show how to configure and start a videoBackend.

## Prerequisites
You need some of the same prerequisites as for the [backend](../backend/install-and-running-locally.md):
 - docker-compose
 - a url like ```onlineberatung.local``` or ```onlineberatung.de```
 - your local IP address (for local usage)
 
## Steps
 
### Get the files
You have two ways to get the files:
 - checkout with git
 - download as a zip-file

For both ways you need to go to the [videoBackend GitHub Repository](https://github.com/CaritasDeutschland/caritas-onlineBeratung-videoBackend)

### Create the .env (configuration)
To make our lives easier there is a sample file ```.env.sample```

Copy or rename this file to ```.env```. After that you can customize the file for your needs i.e. :
 - Passwords
 - Ports
 - URL
 - Local IP (for local usage)

### Generate passwords
Generally speaking: we need strong passwords everywhere

The Jitsi Community knows that and therefore created a script to support us in that task: ```gen-passwords.sh```

So just run this file in the directory with the ```.env``` file if you can.

After that check the ```.env``` file to make sure all 6 password variables are set:
 - ```JICOFO_COMPONENT_SECRET```
 - ```JICOFO_AUTH_PASSWORD```
 - ```JVB_AUTH_PASSWORD```
 - ```JIGASI_XMPP_PASSWORD```
 - ```JIBRI_RECORDER_PASSWORD```
 - ```JIBRI_XMPP_PASSWORD```

Alternatively: \
Create passwords of your own (i.e. with a Password Manager) and update the above mentioned variables yourself.

### Change ports (if necessary)
There are two ports configured in ```.env```:
 - ```HTTP_PORT``` for HTTP traffic (insecure)
 - ```HTTPS_PORT```  for HTTPS traffic (secure)

For local usage you don´t need to change the default ports. 

If you want to use the videoBackend outside of your local machine you might want to change the ports to 
 - 80 for ```HTTP_PORT```
 - 443 for ```HTTPS_PORT```

### Update URL
You need to configure a URL where your videoBackend is reachable at ```PUBLIC_URL``` in ```.env```.

For local development you can re-use the URL from the backend ```onlineberatung.local``` with the default ports.

ℹ You need to ensure that this URL points to the machine where you intent to start the videoBackend.
 - for ```onlineberatung.local``` you might need to edit your ```hosts``` file and add ```onlineberatung.local``` pointing to ```127.0.0.1``` or the ```ip-address``` of your machine.
 - for ```onlineberatung.de``` (or your Domain) you need to add a DNS record pointing to the ```ip-address``` of the machine running the videoBackend.

### Set DOCKER_HOST_ADDRESS
If you run your videoBackend on a local machine or behind a NAT (i.e. with forwarded ports) you need to put your IP at ```DOCKER_HOST_ADDRESS``` in ```.env``` and uncomment that specific line by removing the leading ```#```.
 - for your local Machine this needs to be your IP address (not 127.0.0.1)
 - for a server behind a NAT, this needs to be the external IP address

 ### Enable JWT authentication and moderator feature
 Follow these steps to verify that only clients with a valid token can access a specific video call room. The tokens are generated by the VideoService and are bound to the created room. This ensures that only consultants can create new video call rooms and that only invited users have access to this room.

 Uncomment (if necessary) and set the following properties in the `.env` file in the root directory of the VideoBackend:

| Name | Value | Description |
| ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| ENABLE_AUTH | 1 | Enable/disable authentication |
| ENABLE_GUESTS | 0 | Enable/disable guest access |
| AUTH_TYPE | jwt | Authentication type |
| JWT_APP_ID | my_jitsi_app_id | Application identifier (airbitrary value) |
| JWT_APP_SECRET | my_secret | Application secret. Please generate a key of 256-bit (32 bytes) minimum. Has to be the same value that is set in the VideoService (`video.call.security.jwt.secret`). |
| JWT_ACCEPTED_ISSUERS | my_app_client | Accepted issuers (comma separated list possible). Has to contain the same value that is set in the VideoService (`video.call.security.jwt.issuer`).  |
| JWT_ACCEPTED_AUDIENCES | my_server1 | Accepted audiences (comma separated list possible). Has to contain the same value that is set in the VideoService (`video.call.security.jwt.audience`). |
| XMPP_MUC_MODULES | token_moderation,close_room | Be careful to not put spaces between the comma separated module names. |

## Statistics
You need to configure the statistics functionality. There are four properties you need to set in the configuration file `videoBackendConfig\prosody\config\conf.d\statistics.cfg.lua`:

| Name | Value | Description |
| ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| enable_statistics | true/false | true, to enable the statistics feature; default: false |
| rabbit_url |http://<RABBIT_MQ_HOST>:15672/api/exchanges/%2F/statistics.topic/publish | Your url to the Rabbit MQ API |
| rabbit_username | <RABBIT_MQ_USERNAME> | The username of the Rabbit MQ user |
| rabbit_password | <RABBIT_MQ_PASSWORD> | The password of the Rabbit MQ user |

`rabbit_url`, `rabbit_username` and `rabbit_password` are only required if the statistics feature is enabled.

⚠️ For security reasons, you should check that port 15672 on RabbitMQ is only required for the video backend. If so, you should set up a restriction for this port in your firewall so that only the video backend can communicate with Rabbit MQ over this port. ⚠️

## VideoBackend startup
After you configured your videoBackend you can start it by running the command ```docker-compose up -d``` in the directory containing the ```.env``` and 
```docker-compose.yml``` files.

## Known difficulties
 
### Self-Signed Certificate with Chrome
If you can't access the Jitsi page because of a warning about an invalid certificate in Chrome, you can try this tip:\
Just click anywhere on the screen (to select the tab/page) and type ```thisisunsafe```

This is especially true for Chrome on Mac since it treats things different as the Windows version.

See [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58802767/no-proceed-anyway-option-on-neterr-cert-invalid-in-chrome-on-macos/58957322#58957322) 